Homemade Pizza Dough Recipe
 

Print
Prep time
1 hour 20 mins
Total time
1 hour 20 mins
 
My all-time favorite homemade pizza dough recipe, this recipe has been tried and tested week after week, making the best homemade pizza. My family now likes homemade pizza better than take-out!
Author: Deborah
Serves: 3 1-lb balls of dough
Ingredients
2½ cups warm water
¼ cup sugar
3 teaspoons instant yeast
¼ cup vegetable oil
6 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons salt
Instructions
In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the water, sugar and yeast. Allow the mixture to sit for a few minutes until frothy. Add in the vegetable oil.
In a bowl, combine the flour and the salt. Add the flour to the yeast mixture, ½ cup at a time, mixing well between additions. Continue adding the flour until the dough can be pulled away from the sides of the bowl with a spatula, but the dough will still be quite sticky. You may need to add in a little bit more or less flour, but the key is to remember that the dough will still be sticky and will stick to your fingers when you try to pull it apart.
Grease a large bowl, then scrape the dough into the bowl. Turn the dough to coat it in oil. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a towel and a let the dough rise at room temperature until doubled, about 1 hour.
Turn the dough out onto a well-floured work surface. Pull the dough around to the bottom, stretching it to create a smooth ball. Cut the dough into 3 equal portions. Each ball will be approximately 1 pound of dough.
Roll out the dough to use in your favorite pizza recipe, or refrigerate until needed. (I have refrigerated it for several hours, up to overnight, but the dough will continue to rise, even in the refrigerator, so I try to use it before 24 hours.
Notes
*This makes 3 1-lb balls of dough. It's a lot, but I usually make 3 pizzas (we'll eat 2, and save the third for leftovers). Most recipes call for a 1 lb ball of dough, but in all honesty, we usually like our pizza a little more on the thin side. So I have halved this recipe and made 3 pizzas, or I will make 4 pizzas from this recipe. It is easy to halve, so feel free to do so. Also, not everyone's mixer has the capacity to make this much dough. Use common sense. 🙂

*I usually make my dough a couple of hours before I need it and just refrigerate the dough until needed. It's a little easier to roll out when it's not super cold, but straight from the fridge still works. I recommend making it within 24 hours, though, as the dough will continue to rise, even in the refrigerator.

*When it comes to baking your pizza, I always recommend using a pizza stone. They are pretty inexpensive and make a huge difference. I bought mine at Bed Bath and Beyond for $20 years ago and have probably used it over 100 times and it is still going strong. I always preheat the oven for at least 30 minutes with the stone inside on a high temp. I also use parchment paper when baking my pizza because 1) my husband doesn't care for the cornmeal on the bottom of the pizza, 2) I'm terrible and transferring the pizza from the pizza peel to the stone. Parchment paper works well for me.